Hello and welcome to this lesson.
I'm now going to talk about using the IPv6 protocol in an Amazon VPC.
So remember, I mentioned earlier in the course that there's two versions of IP, which are used extensively.
One of them is IPv4.
That's by far the most commonly used.
It's been around for quite a long time.
And then there's IPv6 now.
IPv6 has also been around quite a few years, but it's not been used anywhere near as extensively.
But that needs to change over time because we are running short of IPv4 addresses, so we're going to
have a look at how you can use IPv6 and of APC.
So let's start by looking at the structure of the IPv4 address.
So you remember it's made up of four numbers separated by dots, and those numbers come from an octet.
So that's eight binary bits, which are either one or zero.
So an IPv4 address is 32 bits long.
Now let's have a look at how many addresses you get.
For that, you get four point three billion addresses, which sounds like a big number, and it's a
big number if it's dollars in your bank account.
But when it's addresses, that needs to be assigned to all sorts of different devices all over the world.
In a world full of seven billion people, it's just not way anywhere near enough, and it might have
sounded like more than enough quite a few years ago, but it became apparent, even in the 90s, that
it was not going to suffice.
And it hasn't.
So we are close to exhausting these addresses, and Nat has to be used extensively.
So if you're in a company and your company has thousands of computers internally, then those computers
will most likely be using IPv4 addresses and those will be private addresses.
And when they access the internet, they go for a nets device of some sort, and that means that a public
IP address is used to represent many, many pieces.
So that's a workaround that we have to put in place with IPv4.
With IPv6, we don't have to worry about that.
So let's look at the structure of an IPv6 address.
So this is the structure of IPv6.
It also has a network part and a node part, but it's 128 bits long, so it's a much, much bigger number.
But also it uses hexadecimal, whereas IPv4 uses dotted decimal.
So that means there's a lot more potential values that you can use in hexadecimal versus decimal.
So that means the amount of addresses is much, much bigger.
And this is the number that's the number of addresses you can get out of IPv6, and it's absolutely
huge.
So put it into some kind of perspective.
And by the way, if you look on Google for analogies for the size of the IPv6 address space, there's
all sorts of fantastic analogies because it really is massive.
So one that I like is that you can get 100 IPv6 addresses for every atom on Earth.
So that is a huge, huge number, which means we never, ever have to worry about running out of IPv6
addresses.
So let's have a look at how we need to set up.
I'll be PC.
So we've got a VPC with a couple of subnets.
We need to have an IPv4 side, a block and then we need the individual subnet ranges for subnets.
Now we also need an IPv6 side, a block now, so we've allocated one to this account.
Now MWC will assign a slash 56 IPv6 address range to the VPC.
Then you can create your subnet ranges within that address space.
And those become 64 subnets now.
A Slash 64 subnet will allow 18 million trillion addresses.
So again, it's an example of why you really don't need to worry about how many addresses you're going
to have for your computers, because it's just huge.
Now you'll notice there's two numbers highlighted in red at the end of the IP address.
This is a hexadecimal path which has values from zero zero to FMF.
And this designates the individual subnet, so it has to be unique for each subnet.
And it means that you're going to have a possible 256 subnets with IPv6 blocks in them, and each of
those is a slash 64.
So each of those will support 18 million trillion addresses.
So lots of flexibility for your VPC.
Now let's look at the root table once we've enabled IPv6.
So we now have a local route for the IPv6 side block, and we need a route to the internet gateway for
everything that's outside of that range, just like we did for IPv4.
We have the colon code on slash zero for IPv6 pointing at the internet gateways IP, and that means
any.
Thing that's not an IPv6 address in this range.
We'll go to the internet gateway, so we'll make sure that we have that specified in our roundtable
when we enable IPv6.
Now all IPv6 addresses are publicly releasable.
That means there's no network address translation.
Now, if you want to, you can use something called an egress only internet gateway.
Now the purpose of this is when you want to allow outbound access only using IPv6.
So it's kind of like having a EC2 instance in a private subnet with IPv4 and then adding a NAT gateway
into a public subnet.
It means that that instance is protected from the internet.
No one can access it directly from the internet, but it does have internet access outbound.
So that's what an egress only internet gateway does.